welcome to module 2 lesson six better
data better insights with our conversion
funnel installed and naming conventions
in place let's now talk about our
tracking templates tracking templates
allow you to streamline your link
tagging process and pass static and
dynamic values here's an example so in
your workbook if you come here tracking
templates uh they sound much more
complicated than they actually are I
promise it's just a way to streamline
your link tagging process and again you
can pass static and dynamic values so I
actually created this little cheat sheet
for you here to give you an
understanding of what a tracking
template is so you can see it's it's
comprised of different variables so
we've got uh the lp URL this is your
landing page URL so whatever the URL is
in your ad the template will
automatically inherit it and then it
will automatically append these
different static and dynamic values
based on these parameters so we've got
standard UTM uh which is your standard
ones like UTM Source UTM medium campaign
term content and then in addition to
that we've got static values so Google
here is a static value you know if it's
a static or a dynamic value because a
static value will always just be the
text and dynamic values will usually
have this squiggly bracket and that's
like a good way for you to know okay
that's a dynamic value versus a static
value and difference between static and
dynamic is dynamic it means it changes
static means it's always the same it
will remain consistent so we always want
the UTM Source here to be Google we
always want the UTM medium to be CPC we
always want the UTM campaign to be trial
this exam example and in this case we
want the UTM term to automatically
populate the keyword that drove the
click in addition to the match type that
that keyword is using so these two
Dynamic variables are called value track
parameters and they will dynamically
change based on the keyword and the
match type Associated and then finally
this last one here of addore name is a
custom parameter and custom parameters
are parameters that you can create that
are not part of the UTM parameters which
are your standard ones and most folks
would use custom UTM parameters if they
have some sort of advanced tracking
setup uh just know that they exist so if
this is not something relevant for you
just so you see it you know but anything
that is available in the URL you can
then set up with JavaScript the ability
to pass the data from those parameters
into hidden fields in your form to then
be able to uh route and track and do all
sorts of thing in your back end so this
is a tracking template and it's really
important as this is going to allow you
get a lot better data and ultimately
better insights from your
activities now the better data we pass
to our tracking template as I mentioned
the better insights we can glean so why
deny yourself incredible insights such
as which keywords drove the most Revenue
when you have the ability to capture
that information freely available now
you can install a tracking template at
the campaign ad group or ad level you
can even do it at the account level with
a tracking script I'm going to show you
what this looks like in Google ads and I
recommend that you start off with the
campaign level so navigating here into
our Google ads account we're going to go
ahead and uh click on an existing
campaign so I reckon you haven't built a
campaign yet so you can follow after the
fact but essentially here in our
campaign we're going to go into the
settings and we're going to scroll down
to additional settings and we want to go
under the campaign Ural options I
usually like to set my tracking
templates at the campaign level and that
suffices so the cool thing too about the
tracking template is once I create the
tracking template at the campaign level
I don't have to worry about tagging my
ads with UTM parameters at the app level
anymore it'll automatically inherit the
campaign URL uh tracking template and
then my my links are tagged
appropriately because if you're just
putting all of the tagged URLs at the ad
level it can be really problematic
sometimes and and really timec consuming
to make changes and miss things so this
just really helps streamline things and
push those Dynamic parameters so for
example here for tracking template if
you go back to the cheat sheet we want
to follow this format here because this
is the the syntax of the tracking
template uh you can also find additional
value track parameters here in this
Google ads article you can look into it
so these are all additional pieces of
information that you can dynamically
pass to your tracking template um and
you can just grab this example here so
I'm going to copy this and I'll use this
and I'm going to paste it in my template
just like this so if I come back here to
the campaign level I'm going to paste
this in and you can see under UTM Source
this is where you're going to want to
put the source of what you want to call
this people usually put Google or
they'll put like AdWords UTM medium so
people will usually put CPC or paid
search this 100% depends on you and your
business your company how you guys want
to track things campaign you can put a
static value of the campaign the
downside of this is you have to do this
for each campaign so each campaign has
have its own unique tracking template
unless you're using a an account-wide
script uh so for example I'm going to
call this campaign um you know let's
just say for the sake of example and a
non brand just keep it simple the UTM
term I'm going to dynamically push the
keyword that drove the click and the
match type here with these Dynamic
Valley Track parameters and then I have
this custom parameter here of AD name
and I can put you know maybe I say like
RSA 1 for the custom parameter this one
is 100% optional most of my clients
don't really need custom parameters but
I just want you to be aware of it now
one other thing too I want to talk about
here on the tracking template which is
really cool is the ability to create a
custom parameter to to populate so for
example um let say for for this custom
parameter here we want to create a
custom parameter of add name you can
dynamically push values into the custom
parameter of add name based on whatever
you put here uh which is really cool so
there's a lot more tracking templates
for the sake of this course and the
Simplicity you really only need to know
this to be honest this is 90% of the
work and uh you can dynamically pass
those value track parameters and push
the primary UTM values that you need
your action item for this lesson is to
build your first tracking template we'll
put this into practice in module 4 once
we actually start to design our first
campaigns that we're going to launch I
hope you received a ton of value so bar
please share app conversion with your
friends or colleagues or leave us a
testimonial we appreciate your help
spreading the word I'll see you in the
next one